$Id: README,v 1.12 2005/01/22 18:49:21 rocky Exp $

This directory contains some simple examples of the use of the libcdio
library.

One might also possibly find useful C code among the regression tests
(directory test), e.g. testparanoia.c testtoc.c testbincue.c

Larger more-complicated examples are the cd-drive, cd-info, cd-read,
iso-info and iso-read programs in the src directory. 

And going further there's the cd-paranoia program (in
src/cd-paranoia), and "real-world' code in the xine VCD plugin, vlc
CD-DA plugin which are part of those distributions.

Descriptions of the programs in this example directory are as follows...

cdtext.c: A program to show CD-Text and CD disc mode info.

drives.c: A program to show drivers installed and what the default
	  CD-ROM drive is and what CD drives are available.

iso1.c:   A program to show using libiso9660 to list files in a
	  directory of an ISO-9660 image.

iso2.c:   A program to show using libiso9660 to extract a file
	  from a CDRWIN cue/bin CD image.

iso3.c:   A program to show using libiso9660 to extract a file from an
	  ISO-9660 image.

iso1cpp.cpp: iso1.c compiled via C++
iso2cpp.cpp: iso2.c compiled via C++
iso3cpp.cpp: iso3.c compiled via C++

paranoia:  A program to show using CD-DA paranoia (a library for jitter
	   detection and audio-read error correction). This program uses
	   an interface compatible (mostly) with cdparanoia.

paranoia2: Another program to show using CD-DA paranoia using a more
	   libcdio-oriented initialization. Probably more suited to
	   things that otherwise use libcdio such as media players 
	   (e.g. for getting CDDB or CD-Text info)

scsi-mmc1.c: A program to show issuing a simple SCSI-MMC command (INQUIRY).

scsi-mmc2.c: A more involved SCSI-MMC command to list features from 
	     a SCSI GET_CONFIGURATION command.

tracks.c:    A program to list track numbers and logical sector
	     numbers of a Compact Disc using libcdio.

sample2.c: A simple program to show drivers installed and what the
   default CD-ROM drive is.

sample3.c: A simple program to show the use of cdio_guess_cd_type().
   Figure out the kind of CD image we've got.

sample4.c: A slightly improved sample3 program: we handle cdio logging
   and take an optional CD-location.



