LAME DirectShow Filter
Version 1.0

Copyright (c) 2000-2005 Marie Orlova, Peter Gubanov, Vitaly Ivanov, Elecard Ltd.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
modify it under the terms of the GNU Library General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU
Library General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Library General Public
License along with this library; if not, write to the
Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,
Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

This library is a Microsoft(R) DirectShow(R) wrapper filter for 
LAME library. It adds DirectShow interface to the library and two
property pages so you can tune some encoding parameters.

We are interested to hear from you, when you use this package
as part of another project.

Filter Homepage http://www.elecard.com/products/layer3encoder.shtml

Vitaly Ivanov   vitaly.ivanov@elecard.net.ru



NOTE:
1st: build dx9sdk/Samples/DShow/BaseClasses Project
2nd: copy resulting strmbase.lib (or strmbasd.lib for debug support) 
     into LAME's DShow folder
3rd: add the BaseClasses directory path to the Visual Studio
     Include and Library directory search path lists 
     i.e. for Visual Studio 6 choose:

     Tools -> Options -> Directories

4th: build LAME .DLL builds (if you didn't yet)
5th: build LAME DShow Filter


TROUBLESHOOTING FAQ:
Q. When trying to open a workspace file (.dsw), I get an "empty" workspace
(i.e. there are no source files listed) and/or when trying to open a project
file (.dsp), I get a "This makefile was not generated by Developer Studio" 
error.

A. Often, this can be caused by having UNIX line breaks (LF) in the 
.dsw and .dsp files, as opposed to Windows line breaks (CR\LF). It 
is interesting to note that .dsw and .dsp files are just text files; 
you can open them up in any text editor. If you open the .dsw and 
.dsp files in a text editor that can't handle UNIX line breaks 
(namely Notepad) you will probably see big, black squares at 
the end of lines. You can "fix" this error by following this procedure.

1) Do NOT let Microsoft Visual C++ attempt to fix the problem! Press "No" when prompted.

2) Open the .dsw and .dsp files in a text editor that understands UNIX line breaks. 
WordPad is one and it is available with most copies of Windows.

3) Once open, simply re-save the file (In WordPad, make sure you set the Save 
As type to "Text Document"). All UNIX line breaks should then be automatically
converted to Windows line breaks.

