$Id: README,v 1.28 2007/08/12 00:56:10 rocky Exp $

This directory contains some simple examples of the use of the libcdio
library.

One might also possibly find useful C code among the regression tests
(directory test), e.g. testbincue.c, testdefault.c, testiso9660.c, 
testparanoia.c, or testtoc.c 

Larger more-complicated examples are the cd-drive, cd-info, cd-read,
cdda-player, iso-info and iso-read programs in the src directory. 

And going further there's the cd-paranoia program (in
src/cd-paranoia), and "real-world' code in the xine VCD plugin, or the
vlc CD-DA plugin which are part of those distributions.

Descriptions of the programs in this example directory are as follows...

audio.c:     Sample program to show audio controls.

cdchange.c:  A program to test if a CD has been changed since the last
	     change test.

cdio-eject.c: a stripped-down "eject" command to open or close a CDROM
             tray

cdtext.c:    A program to show CD-Text and CD disc mode info.

drives.c:    A program to show drivers installed and what the default
	     CD-ROM drive is and what CD drives are available.

eject.c:     A program eject a CD from a CD-ROM drive and then close the door
	     again.

isofile.c:   A program to show using libiso9660 to extract a file from an
	     ISO-9660 image.

isofile2.c:  A program to show using libiso9660 to extract a file
	     from a CDRWIN cue/bin CD image.

isofuzzy.c : A program showing fuzzy ISO-9660 detection/reading.

isolist.c:   A program to show using libiso9660 to list files in a
	     directory of an ISO-9660 image and give basic iso9660 
	     information.

isolsn.c:    A program to show using libiso9660 to get the file 
	     path for a given LSN.

mmc1.c:      A program to show issuing a simple MMC command (INQUIRY).

mmc2.c:      A more involved MMC command to list features from 
	     a MMC GET_CONFIGURATION command.

mmc2a.c:     Show MODE_SENSE page 2A paramaters:
	     CD/DVD Capabilities and Mechanical Status Page

paranoia:    A program to show using CD-DA paranoia (a library for jitter
	     detection and audio-read error correction). This program uses
	     an interface compatible (mostly) with cdparanoia.

paranoia2:   Another program to show using CD-DA paranoia using a more
	     libcdio-oriented initialization. Probably more suited to
	     things that otherwise use libcdio such as media players 
	     (e.g. for getting CDDB or CD-Text info)

sample2.c:   A simple program to show drivers installed and what the
	     default CD-ROM drive is.

sample3.c:   A simple program to show the use of cdio_guess_cd_type().
             Figure out the kind of CD image we've got.

sample4.c:   A slightly improved sample3 program: we handle cdio logging
             and take an optional CD-location.

tracks.c:    A program to list track numbers and logical sector
	     numbers of a Compact Disc using libcdio.

udf1.c:      A program to show using libudf to list files in a directory of
	     an UDF image.

udf2.c:      A program to show using libudf to extract a file from
	     an UDF image.

Many of the above programs can be compiled in C++. See that directory
for C++ examples which include some of the above.
